Elisabeth Sanxay Holding

People Do Fall Downstairs



CAPTAIN Martin Consadine, Commissioner of Police in the island of Puerto Azul, lay back in his swivel chair, his neat dark head resting against the back, his feet up on the desk. The Venetian blinds were down, the electric fan was spinning gently, and he was perfectly quiet in the dimness. He was not asleep, though, or even drowsy in the heat of the tropic afternoon; he was simply taking it easy while he could.
  He had been in Puerto Azul only a month, and he had not yet quite got the hang of the place. But that did not troubled him. He had been a policeman in Ceylon, in Demerara, in Trinidad, and elsewhere; he had almost forgotten Ireland, where he was born, London where he had been trained. Wherever he was sent, he would settle down, and would get on courteously and fairly with whatever people happened to be there; nothing was exotic to him any longer, nothing was strange.
   There was a knock at the door, and Constable Merribell entered.
   "Sah!"
   "Yes, Constable?"
   Merribell was invaluable to him, a portly colored man of calm and decorous demeanor, with a colossal knowledge of the island and its inhabitants.
   "Lady on the telephone, sah. Will not tell me what she want. Say she got to speak to 'the captain'."
   "I'll take it," said Consadine, rising, tall, straight, a little gaunt; a handsome man in his own disciplined fashion.
   He went into the anteroom and took the telephone.
   "Commissioner Consadine speaking," he said.
   "Commissioner, is it?" said a fervent voice. "God be praised I've a man like yourself to talk to, and not a monkey out of the zoo."
   That voice, that accent, made him smile a little.
   "What is it you want, madam?" he asked.
   "There is bad trouble here," she said.
   "Trouble where, madam?"
   "It is Captain Jarvis's house, and there is trouble."
   "What sort of trouble?"
   "Once you're here," she said, "it'll be plain as daylight to a smart man like yourself, Commissioner. Will you come now, as soon as you can?"
   "I`ll have to have more information, madam," he said.
   She was silent for a moment.
   "If it was in New York, now," she said, coldly, "the police'd see for themselves what was wrong, and not be wasting time on the tillyphone."
   "This is not New York, madam."
   "And well do I know it!" she cried.
   "If it's information you're wanting, the Captain's brother is hurt, how bad I don't know. But there is more to come.'"
   "What is your name, madam?"
   "The name," she said, "is Mrs. Gogarty, and I am the cook. Will you not come, Commissioner dear, and see for yourself?"
   "I'll need more information—" said Consadine, but Mrs. Gogarty had hung up.
   The sensible thing would be to send Merribell to look into this matter. Certainly Mrs. Gogarty had given no reason why the Commissioner should go in person. And yet he thought that he would go. Something in the woman's voice, and her words, stirred an old arid long-forgotten emotion in him. He felt that Mrs. Gogarty was a fine woman, sensible too, and not easily flustered. He turned to Merribell.
   "Do you know where a Captain Jarvis lives, Sergeant?"
   "Oh, undoubtedly, sah! Captain Jarvis very well known in the island, sah, and highly esteemed. Live out on the South Shore now."
   "What sort of captain? Army?"
   "Oh, no, sah. Marchant Marine. Been coming down here for years on he ship. Third Mate, Second Mate, Chief, Captain. Then he ship torpedoed, and the faculty of hearing damage."
   "Is he married?"
   "Oh, no, sah. Single gentleman. But he brother and he brother wife here now from New York."
  "What about them?"
  "Brother wife a very quiet lady, sah. Stay home all the time. Never see she."
  "And the brother.?"
  "He drink, sah," said Merribell, gravely.
  "Well, we'll drive out there," said Consadine.
  Merribell squeezed in behind the wheel of the small car, and they drove through the town, past the cane fields and up a hill, to the shore road that ran along the cliffs. Nothing grew here but short, rank grass and here and there a tamarisk tree; in the old days of great estates no one had lived here, but now there was a settlement of five or six new houses, high above the road, without walls or fences, and looking very lonely in this empty world. Merribell stopped the car before the last of them, a white wooden house, narrow and ugly, already bleached and weather-beaten, and Consadine got out and started up the long flight of steps cut in the rock.
  Everything was completely quiet in the blazing afternoon sun; the road behind him was empty; as he reached the top of the steps he could see the Caribbean stretching out to the horizon, blue and empty. And this disturbed him. I shouldn't have come without more information, he told himself.
  He rang the bell, and the door was opened promptly by a nonchalant young fellow in dungarees.
  "I'd like to speak to Mrs. Gogarty," said Consadine.
  The young man turned his head.
  "Gogarty," he called. "You're wanted."
  Then he came out, past Consadine down the steps of the veranda, and disappeared round the corner of the house. Consadine waited a moment and then, because he did not like Merribell to see his Cornmissioner standing ignored outside the house, he entered the hall.
  It was a cramped, ungracious house. From the narrow hall rose a narrow and very steep stairway, and against the wall facing it stood a colossal hatrack that was almost like a crazy little house in itself, with a seat and tiers of shelves and wooden antlers and a round mirror.
  A door opened upstairs, and a girl began to descend the stairs; a very pretty little blonde, slim and full-bosomed, in a sleeveless black-and-white striped dress with a halter tied in a saucy bow at the nape of her neck.
  "Yes?" she asked, polite but unsmiling.
  "I'd like to see Mrs. Gogarty, please," said Consadine.
  She looked surprised, and why shouldn't she?
  "It's — there's nothing wrong, is there?" she asked.
  He was a man of authority, and he must now allow himself to feel abashed.
  "I'm the Commissioner of Police, madam," he said. "We've been informed that there's been — some trouble here."
  "Oh!" she said. "Well, yes. My husband fell down the stairs. But Doctor Buller has seen him . . ."
  And there's no reason for you to be here.
  "If you'll give me an account of the accident, madam. . . ?" said Consadine, stiff and aloof to cover his secret chagrin.
  "I was in my room when I heard the fall," she said. "I came down, and Francis — that's Captain Jarvis, my brother-in-law — was already here. He called out the window to Hazen—"
  "Who is Hazen, madam?"
  "He's the handyman. He came in, and he and Francis — Captain Jarvis — carried my husband upstairs. He was unconscious."
  She began to cry, very quietly, and that disturbed Consadine.
  "Doctor Buller saw your husband?"
  "Yes. He said to keep him very quiet, and he'd look in tomorrow morning."
  So there it was. A drunk had fallen downstairs, and here was the Police Commissioner making a marvellous fool of himself.
  "I'm sorry to trouble you," he said, "but I'd like a word with Mrs. Gogarty."
  "I'll get her," said Mrs. Jarvis.
  "Don't bother. If you'll tell me where I'm likely to find her. . . ?"
  "I suppose she's in the kitchen," said the girl. "That's just down the hall."
  "Thank you," he said, with formality, and went down the hall, opened a door, went through a pantry and into the kitchen, where he found the young fellow in dungarees washing his face at the sink.
   "Where's Mrs. Gogarty?" asked Consadine.
   "I wouldn't know," answered the other, drying his face and his sturdy neck on a roller towel.
   Consadine did not like his tone. Above all, he did not like his own position, wandering around here, looking for this outrageous Mrs. Gogarty.
   "I'm the Commissioner of Police here," he said. "I want your name, address, and occupation."
   "The name," said the other, "is Hazen. Louis. Address is Toronto Villa. Occupation is licensed hackdriver."
   "What are you doing here?"
   "Working on the electric pump, and the car. I was in the Merchant Marine in the war, and I sailed with Captain Jarvis once. Now whenever he wants anything done, he sends for me."
   "Were you in the house when the Captain's brother fell?"
   "Nope. In the garage. The Captain yelled out the window to me, and I came. I helped him carry Bill upstairs."
   "Was — William Jarvis conscious at that time?"
   "Out like a light,", said Hazen, cheerfully. "I thought he was dead."
   "You're well acquainted'with the family?"
   "Me?" said Hazen, with a grin. "Why, I'm just a deckhand that shipped with the Captain. I couldn't be 'acquainted' with his family, anymore than a dog could."
   He spoke with an easy good humor, very sure of himself; he looked squarely back at Consadine.
   "I come here to do odd jobs," he said. "And five, six times I was sent out to find Bill Jarvis when he was missing. He blacks out, when he's drinking."
   "I see," said Consadine, "Now I'd like you to get Mrs. Gogarty for me."
   "I wouldn't know where she is," said Hazen.
   "Find her," said Consadine.
   "They wouldn't let me go running around the house."
   "She lives here, I suppose."
   "And how!" said Hazen. "Her husband was the Captain's pet steward, and when he died, the Old Man sent for her. She thinks she owns him and the house."
   "I see," said Consadine, again. He was very much at a loss now, but he was absolutely determined to see this Mrs. Gogarty, and to get an explanation from her. I'll send Merribell in to look for her, he thought, and went out through the pantry.
   As he came into the narrow hall again, someone was coming down the stairs, a big man, heavily built, strikingly handsome, with black hair, bold black brows, bold, steady gray eyes that looked pale in his deeply-tanned face. He came on leisurely, and stopping a few feet from Consadine, he took a small hearing-aid out of his pocket and adjusted it.
   "Well, mister?" he asked.
   This was almost too much for Consadine, but he stood his ground. 
   "I'm the Police Commissioner, sir. I'd like to speak to Mrs. Gogarty," he said. 
   "Now, what's she been up to?" asked the other, with a broad smile. "My name is Jarvis, mister, and I'm responsible for Mary Gogarty. What's she done? Been pulling somebody's hair?" 
   "Oh, no. Nothing. Routine," said Consadine. "If I can see her for a few moments, please. . . " 
   "She's upstairs, sitting with my brother. Doctor said he might be comin' to his senses any minute and we're standing by. It's Mary Gogarty's trick now. I'll get her for you." 
   "Suppose I go up?" Consadine suggested. 
   "If you like. This way, mister." 
   Jarvis led the way up the stairs, and opened the door of a bedroom, dim, with the Venetian blinds down; the big double bed, covered with a mosquito net, was pulled out from the walls, for a better circulation of air. A woman sitting by the window rose at once, a sturdy little woman with thick black hair in a tight knoton the top of her head, a fine color in her cheeks, fiery blue eyes. 
   "Well, here she is," said Jarvis. 
   "Mary Gogarty, here's the police after you." 
   He spoke loudly, probably more loudly than he knew, and Mrs. Gogarty put a finger to her lips.
   "You're right," said Jarvis, in a whisper. "Step out into the hall, Mrs. Gogarty, and find out what's going to happen to you. I'll stay here till you come back."
  "I'll just take a look at the patient," said Consadine.
  "No," said Jarvis. "Doctor said not to disturb him."
  "I shan't disturb him, sir," said Consadine. "I'm used to these cases."
  He went over to the bed and drew aside the mosquito net. A man was lying there, tall and straight, in white shirt and trousers, a neat white bandage round his head. He had once been a handsome man, but he had grown haggard and sick. And he had a look Consadine had seen often enough before. He raised the man's wrist.
  "Here, mister!" said Jarvis behind him. "Better not do that."'
  Consadine bent and laid his head against the man's chest. Jarvis pulled him by the shoulder and he straightened up and faced him.
  "I'm sorry, sir," he said. "I'm very sorry — but this man is dead."
  Jarvis fell back into a chair so heavily that it creaked; he looked up at Consadine with blank eyes.
  "I killed him, mister," he said.
  "You did not!" said Mrs. Gogarty. "Don't be listening to him, Mr. Com^ missioner. He —"
  "I knocked him down the stairs," said Jarvis. "I killed him. You can take me along with you, mister."
  Consadine took the key out of the door.
  "Both of you step out of the room, please," he said.
  Jarvis did not move. He had put the hearing-aid back into his pocket and sat slumped in his chair, looking at the man on the bed. Consadine touched him on the shoulder.
  "I did it," said Jarvis. "I killed him."
  "Step out of the room, please," said Consadine, but still Jarvis did not move.
  Mrs. Gogarty went to his side.
  "Captain, dear, come along now!" she said, coaxingly, and he rose.
  "Like Cain. . ." he said.
  Mrs. Gogarty took his hand and led him out of the room, to a room along the hall. He went in there, stumbling a little, and closed the door after him. Consadine locked, the door of the room where the dead man lay.
  "Commissioner, dear, I'll tell you the whole truth," said Mrs. Gogarty, "the way it happened."
  "Later," said Consadine. "Show me where the telephone is."
  She led him downstairs to a sittingroom, heavily furnished, where a telephone stood on a marble-topped table. She gave him Doctor Buller's number, and stood beside him while he called it. Fortunately, the doctor was at home.
  "Commissioner Consadine?" he said. "Yes? Yes? What can I do for you, sir?"	.
  "I'm speaking from Captain Jarvis's house, doctor. You saw William Jarvis after his accident?"
  "Yes. Yes. Bandaged him up, and left him to sleep it off."
  "Your patient is dead," said Consadine.
  There was a moment's silence.
  "That's — most unfortunate," said Buller. "Most unfortunate. It—" He rallied; his voice became louder, and with a note of resentment. "It's very difficult to diagnose'those cases, particularly when they're complicated by alcoholism. All the symptoms were characteristic of a simple concussion."
  "You didn't think there was any possibility of his dying?"
  "That's absurd, sir!" shouted Buller. "No doctor would answer a question like that. There's always the possibility of unforeseen complications in a head injury."
  "But you didn't expect him to die?"	'
  "Certainly I did!" cried the doctor. "I mean to say, I was fully aware that complications might develop —"
  "I'd like you to come over here as soon as you can," said Consadine, and went out to the car, where Merribell sat waiting in calm patience. He sent him to fetch Nicholson, the Police Surgeon, and turning back to the house, he found Mrs. Gogarty standing in the doorway.
  "Now will you listen to me, Mr. Commissioner?" she asked, sternly.
  "Yes," said Consadine, and went after her, down the hall and into the kitchen.
  "Why did you ask me to come here, madam?" he asked.
  "You were needed," said she.
  "I'd like something more definite than that," he said. "At the time you telephoned to me, there was no occasion for alarm."
   "I knew there was worse to come," said Mrs. Gogarty. "And wasn't I right, Commissioner?"
   "You mean you thought William Jarvis's injury was more serious than the doctor suspected?"
   She was silent for a moment, and he studied her face, with the high cheek bones, the long upper lip, the dark-blue eyes. A passionate, stubborn face, he thought.
   "Commissioner dear," she said, "to tell you the truth of it, I wasn't clear in my mind when I tillyphoned. Only when I saw Mr. Bill lying there, white as death itself, I knew there was worse to come. And wasn't I right? Isn't he lying there dead this moment, murdered by the two of them?"
   "What two?"
   "Mrs. Bill and that Louis."
   "What grounds have you for saying this?"
   "I know it," said Mrs. Gogarty.
   "How do you know it?"
   "Commissioner dear," she said, earnestly. "Mr. Bill could never have been killed by that fall."
   "Why not?"
   "Because," she said, "he wouldn't have been let be killed. The Captain's the finest man ever drew breath, and God Himself wouldn't let him kill his own brother."
   "Accidents can happen to anyone," said Consadine.
   "Commissioner, sir, it was the two of them did it, plotting together."
  "Have you any evidence that Mrs. Jarvis and Hazen were engaged in any sort of conspiracy?"
  "I have."
  "Do you wish to make a statement, madam?"
  "And what else am I doing?"
  "Do you wish to make a statement, to be taken down in writing and later to be signed by you?"
  "I will sign anything at all," said Mrs. Gogarty. "All I want in the world is to see the poor innocent Captain easy in his heart, and that murdering pair —" 
  "You must be careful in making accusations of that nature, Mrs. Gogarty. Have you any evidence —?"
  "I've seen the looks they give each other." ',
  "That's not evidence," said Consadine.
  "It is good enough for me," said Mrs. Gogarty.
  "Have you anything definite to tell me? Any facts?"
  "Holy Mother of God!" cried Mrs. Gogarty. "Isn't it fact enough for you that Mr. Bill's lying there murdered?"
  "Madam," said Consadine, "there's no evidence whatever of murder. Captain Jarvis has stated that he pushed his brother downstairs in the course of a quarrel. He and Hazen carried William Jarvis upstairs —"
  "Herself wint up, too," said Mrs. Gogarty.
  "Mrs. Gogarty, when I arrived, you were in the room with William Jarvis. Who was there before you?".
  "It was the Captain himself." "Have, you any reason to believe that he left that room for any length of time?"
  "I have."
  "Did you see Captain Jarvis leave the room?"
  "I did not."
  "Then how do you know that he left it?" Consadine asked, marvelling at his own patience.
  "Because the two of them couldn't have murdered Mr. Bill unless the Captain was out of it," said she. "I tell you it wouldn't be let happen. The Captain wouldn't be let kill his own brother."
  "Mrs. Gogarty," said Consadine, "do you reahze how your accusation would sound in a court of law?"
  "I do!" said she. "Put me before a jury of Christian beings, and they'd believe me."
  "It's not a question of 'believing' you, Mrs. Gogarty. You haven't given me any evidence, not one single fact pointing to collaboration between Mrs. Jarvis and Hazen."
  "Collaboration,' is it?" said' she, with irony. "That's a word new to me. But if you mean were they carrying on, they were that."
  "Did you ever see them alone together? Ever hear them arrange a meeting? See them exchange notes, anything of that sort?"
  "Never," she said. "And I didn't need to. The two of them were carrying on, and they wanted to get Mr. Bill out of the way, God rest him. He was not good at all to a woman, the way he was drunk all the time, and roaring, up and down the island. But that didn't give the two of them the right to murder him, and let the poor innocent Captain take the sin on himself, and him so generous and good to her—"'
  "Captain Jarvis is — fond of his sister-in-law?" Consadine asked, very cautiously.
  "I know what's in your mind," said Mrs. Gogarty, "as well as if you'd spoke the words. You are wrong. Mrs. Bill's got a way with her, a tweedly way would please many a man." She looked at Consadine. "The Captain, God help him, thinks she's a saint on earth, and that's the whole of it. It would never come into his head at all that his brother's wife would be carrying on with that Louis. But Mr. Bill thought of it, many a time."
  "How do you know that, Mrs. Gogarty?"
  "By the way he'd been looking at the two of them."
  "Mrs. Gogarty," said Consadine, "You haven't given me one single fact to support your theory —"
  "Theory!" she cried. "It's the truth I've told you, and you've a right to take the two of them off to jail, before there's more harm done."
  "There's no case against them, Mrs. Gogarty."
  "And you'll take himself off to the jail?"
  "I'm obliged to charge him with manslaughter, Mrs. Gogarty," said Consadine, rising. "But he'll be admitted to bail."
   She rose too.
   "I've told you the truth of it," she said, "and if you will not believe it, so much the worse for all of us."
   He went out of the kitchen, annoyed with himself for the stir of uneasiness her words and her tone had caused in him. She's an utterly unreasonable woman, he thought.
   He felt it his duty to break the news to young Mrs. Jarvis, but he was much relieved when Doctor Buller arrived, before he had found her. The doctor was in a belligerent mood; a dapper httle gray-haired man with a self-important air. He was still more affronted by the arrival of young Nicholson, the Police Surgeon; he went upstairs with him, in cold silence.
   Consadine waited in the lower hall, and presently they came down again.
   "At the time that I examined the patient," said Buller, "the symptoms were those of simple concussion. Complicated, of course, by his condition of alcoholic intoxication."
   "I see," said Consadine. "Are you both agreed about the cause of death?"
   "Depressed fracture of the skull," said Nicholson.
   "Caused by what?" '
   "By what?" cried Buller. "Why, the man fell all the way down a steep flight of stairs, and hit his head against that — that thing there."
   "Then you're ready to state that the fall could have been the cause of the fracture?"
   "Could have been?"said Buller, more and more outraged. "It was. There's no question at all about it."
   "There's no possibility that he could have got his head injury before or after his fall?"'
   "Certainly not!" said Buller.
   "Well . . ." said the serious young Nicholson, in his amiable manner, "I think we'll have to admit that the injury might have been done by some instrument."
   "My good sir!" cried BuUer. "You have the evidence of everyone in this household that William Jarvis fell down these stairs. You can see for yourself how narrow this hall is. It would be almost impossible for anyone — especially a tall man — not to strike his head on that — thing. That's quite good enough for me. I don't need any fantastic 'instruments' to satisfy me as to the cause.of death in this case."
   And it's good enough for me, too, Consadine thought. Mrs. Gogarty told me nothing of any value whatever. Utterly unreasonable woman. Her whole story's an invention.
   Doctor Buller offered to break the news to Mrs. Jarvis.
   "I'll take the poor girl home with me," he said. "My wife will be glad to look after her."
   This seemed to Consadine a very good idea, and he went himself to the Captain's room. He knocked, waited, knocked again, and getting no answer, entered. The big man was standing by the window; he did not turn until Consadine touched him on the shoulder.
   "All right," he said.. "I'm ready, mister." 
   "I'd like an account of the accident, Captain," said Consadine, but Jarvis did not answer. 
   "He cannot hear you at all," said Mrs. Gogarty, from the hall behind him, "when he's not using the contraption." 
   "Ask him to use it," said Consadine. "I want a statement from him." 
   "Captain," said Mrs. Gogarty, speaking close to his ear, and very clearly. "Captain, dear, the Commissioner wants to speak to you. Will you put on the contraption, he asks?" 
   "No," said Jarvis. "I quarreled with my brother and I killed him. I'm not going to discuss the quarrel, now, or any other time. It's nobody's damn business. I killed my brother. For God's sake, isn't that enough?" 
   He has the look of a bull at the end of a fight, Consadine thought, so big, so strong, so tormented. 
   "Cain . . ." the Captain said. "Like Cain." 
    
	
	Consadine had a solitary and formal dinner in his bungalow; then he went out, to walk up and down the garden path while he smoked a cigar. And here he was a trespasser, in a strange and secret world. There was no breeze tonight, only a'smothering blackness, perfumed with unknown flowers; things chirped and rattled in the grass, things moved with a rustle in the branches of the trees, things scuttled across the path; soine night-bird made a strange gurgling sound.
   He had thought he was used to all this, used to anything. But tonight, a man without a home, he was homesick, and it was Mrs. Gogarty who had done this. He felt very angry at that stubborn, utterly unreasonable woman.
   He thought of the pretty little blonde, but only for a moment. She was better off without her sodden husband. Captain Jarvis, was the tragic, the epic figure. There had been a score of people ready to go bail for him; he had had any number of invitations, of offers to accompany him, but he had gone home alone. There would be no legal punishment for him, Consadine was,sure of that, but for' the rest of his days he would be remembering what he had done. It happened so often, it happened so easily. One moment of anger, one blow of a fist could crash through the whole structure of a life.
  Like Cain, he had said. But Cain had killed his brother deliberately, because of his bitter envy. And Jarvis? Had Jarvis envied his brother, perhaps? Envied him his wife? Envied him, hated him, because he was not deaf? Those things could be in a man's heart, and the man not know it. They could be behind a blow, giving it a dreadful force.
  Well, 1 don't know, Consadine thought with a sigh. Maybe a breeze would spring up with the moon. Afresh, sweet breeze coming over the sea . . .
  He went to bed, under his mosquito net, and after a while he fell asleep.
  The telephone waked him, and he got up in haste to answer it.
  "Commissioner, sir, will you come quick?" said Mrs. Gogarty's voice, with a curious ring in it. "For there has been another accident."
   "Who is it?" he asked.
   "Let you see for yourself," said she. "There'll be nothing disturbed at all till you come."
  "Somebody hurt? I want full information —"
  "Let you come and get it," she said, and hung up.
  He was very angry at Mrs. Gogarty. For a moment he thought of caUing her back and demanding a complete explanation. Only he knew he would not get it. You can't do a damn thing with that woman, he thought, I won't go—
  I won't go, he thought, while he dressed. He called Merribell and told him to bring along the Police Surgeon; he went out on the screened veranda to wait for them.
  "What's happened?" the young doctor asked.
  "Accident," Consadine said,- with unusual curtness.
   "What sort of accident?"
   "I don't know," said Consadine.
   "Who's hurt?"
   "I don't know."
   The doctor was silent then, and Consadine made up things for him to be thinking. Consadine's not fit for this job. Hopeless! Getting me out of bed at one o'clock in the morning, to go to an accident, and he hasn't had the the wit to get the most elementary information. Must have lost his head completely.
  They passed the Botanical Garden. It was like a dense black jungle, and there was a bird in it that sounded like an owl choking to death while the whistling frogs piped away, jeering. There was a light in Jarvis's house, and as the car drove up, Mrs. Gogarty opened the door.
  She was wearing a white cotton dress with short sleeves that stood out like wings. There was a fine color in her cheeks; her black hair was very neat, her blue eyes were alight. She looked handsome, and somehow dangerous.
  "Come in, the lot of you," she said, politely, and stood aside.
  Louis Hazen was lying on the floor at the root of the stairs, with blood running down from one temple and soaking into the shoulder of his white shirt. His eyes were haif-open; his face was gray with a mortal weariness; his breath came in a faint moan.
  "The man's bleeding to death!" said the young doctor, on his knees beside him. "Send for the ambulance!"
  Constable Merribell stepped forward, and Consadine turned to Mrs. Gogarty.
  "How did this happen?" he asked sternly.
  "He fell down the stairs," said Mrs. Gogarty, in a ringing voice. "And now will you believe me? Isn't it the judgment of God?"
  He looked at her with a narrow, hostile glance.
   "I want to talk to you," he said. "In here."
   He gestured toward the sittingroom, but she ignored that.
   "This way, sir," she said, and started along the hall. He restrained himself from catching her by the sleeve and pulling her back; he followed her into the kitchen.
   "Now I want a complete and sensible account of what's happened," he said.
   "Yes, sir," she said, with a docility that did not at all reassure him. "I'll tell you the whole truth of it. I was feeling that low in my mind, I went down the street to ask the colored woman that works for the Porters would she come and keep me company a while. She is a good woman, only she is superstitious, the way they are here. Ah, well, they're not to be blamed, for they haven't had the education we have. She came back with me, but she wouldn't go into the house at all, for some notion she had about Mr. Bill. So, I brought two chairs out on the little back porch, and there we sat, with thim insects. I can't stand them!" she cried. "Heathenish things, flapping in your face, and some of them like a puff of dust in your nose—"
   "Get on with your story, please," said Consadine. He didn't need to be told about those insects.
   "I will, sir. We were sitting out there, the two of us, with thim insects, when we heard him come falling down the stairs, bumping and banging, like a sack of coal. In I went to see what was wrong, and Rose, she came along too, forgetting her notions. He was lying there, and he was uncoiiscious. Rose ran off, scared out of her wits entirely. I tillyphoned to yourself and I waited, and after a bit he came to. Give me some whiskey, he said, and then, give me some water, he said. But I wouldn't disturb anything at all."
   "You wouldn't give him water when he asked?"
   "I would not," said Mrs. Gogarty, with a virtuous air. "How would I know it wasn't the worst thing in the world for him? No, sir. I leave him lay. And now you'll be taking him off to the jail, will you not?"
   "To jail? Why?"
   "God help us. Commissioner, dear!" she cried. "Don't you see it now} I told you the two of them killed Mr. Bill, and you would not believe me. It was God Himself sent him falling down the stairs, so you'd have to believe it."
   "Why should his falling down the stairs make me believe you?"
   "And why did he ever go up the stairs?" she demanded. "What was he doing here in this house in the dead of night, if it wasn't carrying on with her? Indeed, he could never have got into the house at all, if she hadn't let him in, for I'd locked and bolted the front door, and Rose and myself were sitting there by the back door."
   "You have a point there," said Consadine, slowly.
   For if young Mrs. Jarvis had been "carrying on" with Hazen, her husband's death took on a different look.
   "Where is Mrs. Jarvis.''" he asked.
   "She's shut up in her room," said Mrs. Gogarty. "And never a sound out of her, with all the noise he made, falling down the stairs. She is shut up in there, shaking and trembling, because she knows her sin is found out."
   "I'll speak to her," said Consadine.
   When he knocked at her door, she opened it after a moment. She wore a white dressing-gown, and she tried to look startled; she tried to look drowsy, rubbing her eyes.
   "What's happened?" she asked.
   Consadine told her.
   Oh, no, she said.. She had been sound asleep, and had heard nothing. Not a sound. Hazen? she asked with a look of amazement. What, was he doing here? He must have come to talk to the Captain about something.
   "I'll ask the Captain," said Consadine.
   "No!" she said. "It would be cruel to disturb him now."
   "I'm afraid I'll have to," said Consadine. "He must have let Hazen into the house."
   A famihar excitement was rising in him, although his composed and quiet manner gave no hint of it. The little blonde did not look pretty to him rtow She moistened her lips, and glanced at him, and glanced away.
   "The front door must have been left open," she said. "It often is."
   "Not this time," said Consadine. "So the Captain must have let him in." He paused. "Mustn't he?" He waited a moment. "I'll go and ask him."
   "No! Please!" she said. "He's been so good to me .. . I haven't any money, or any place to go . . . And he's so — Straight-laced. He'd never understand. He'd turn me out. I — I did let Louis in. But it wasn't anything wrong. I just wanted to speak to him about —" Her glance flickered over Consadine's face. "About the garden," she said. "Please don't tell Francis."
   "No way out of it," said Consadine. "He's got to know about this other accident, and he'll have to know how Hazen got into the house."
   "He won't have to. We can tell him that the door was left unlocked. Louis'll agree to that."
   "Mrs. Gogarty won't."
   "She's a devil!" cried the girl.
   "Think so?" said Consadine. "I can't waste any more time, Mrs. Jarvis. I'll have to see the Captain now."
   Then it happened. He had seen it happen before, and always to his advantage, as a policeman. Yet it was, he thought, the ugliest and sorriest thing there was to see. Lover against lover, friend against friend, brother against brother, the cornered and the frightened turned as she turned now.
   "You can't think what my life has been like . . . My husband was drunk all the time. Francis was wonderful, but he didn't understand . . . I know I shouldn't have listened to Louis — but there wasn't anyone else. I was so lonely."
  Consadine was not touched by any pity for her.
  "You helped Hazen to kill your husband," he said. And he knew what her answer would be.
  "I didn't! I didn't! I didn't even know he . was thinking of such a thing — until it happened."
  Love against lover. She was desperately anxious now to tell it all. Doctor Buller had said that Bill Jarvis would recover — and Bill was going to talk.
  "That's what they quarreled about. Bill and Francis. Bill was trying to tell Francis — horrible things about me — and Louis. And Francis wouldn't listen. He hit Bill. I didn't know Louis was going to do — that."
  Until she had seen Hazen take a spanner out of his pocket and shift the bandage, just a little, and strike a carefully-planned blow.
  "I haven't any money or any place to go . . . Louis can't look after me — yet. But later Francis was going to help him start a garage for himself—"
  "Get dressed, please, Mrs. Jarvis," said Consadine.
  She began to cry, catching his sleeve. But that did not trouble him.
  "Get dressed, please," he said. "We'll have to see the Attorney General."
  He went but into the hall, closing her door behind him; he was going toward the Captain's room when he saw something that stopped him; he bent over turning his flashlight on the floor.
   The Captain did not answer his knock; he turned the knob and entered the room; he had to shake the sleeping man to rouse him. He had to fetch Mrs. Gogarty to persuade the Captain to use his hearing-aid.
   Mrs. Gogarty began to cry.
   "Captain darlin'!" she said. "You're as innocent as a babe unborn — and didn't I know it? I knew you wouldn't be let do a thing like that, the grand man you are."
   He stood silent, sick and dazed by what he had heard.
   "Captain darlin'!" said Mrs. Gogarty, tears running down her face. "Couldn't you take heart now, when that's not weighing on you any more? When it's not — like Cain?"
   He patted her shoulder, and after a moment he managed a smile for her.
   "You're a fine woman, Mary Gogarty," he said. "You're a good friend."
   "Just a moment!" said Consadine, as Mrs. Gogarty was moving away.
   He went oiit into the hall with her. "Just a moment!" he said again, and pushed aside a queer little rug that lay at the head of the stairs. He turned on his flashlight, to show her a jagged hole in the carpet. .
  "Yes," she said. "That's why I put down the bit of a rug."
  "That rug wasn't here when I first came upstairs," said Consadine.
  "I put it down afterward, so you wouldn't see how poor-looking the carpet was."
  "That hole wasn't in the carpet yesterday," said Consadine.
  "Was it not?" she asked, with an air of interest. "It must be the mice got into it."
  "That hole was cut, Mrs. Gogarty." She looked back at him steadily.
  "Terrible sharp teeth thim mice have," she said.
  "Mrs. Gogarty," said Consadine, "that hole is extremely dangerous. Suppose the Captain had wanted to go downstairs tonight? He might very well have caught his foot in it, and pitched all the way down."
  Mrs. Gogarty's blue eyes were still fixed steadily upon him.
  "No," she said. "He wouldn't have been let."


